--- 
layout: post
title: "Remembering Zork"
date: 2007-01-11
author: Jeffrey Veen
featured: yes
abstract: My favorite puzzel from one of the earliest video games
---
Did you ever play text adventure games years ago? They were the sort of command-line games where you would type simple directions and work your way through a story. I played these for hours and hours as a kid at my friend's house on his dad's teletype. I remember feeding the green and white paper back through as many times as we could to use all the available space. Later I moved on to the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zork">Zork series</a> and other <a href="http://www.csd.uwo.ca/Infocom/">Infocomm</a> titles, staying up way to late at my Commodore 64.

I don't know what made me remember Zork recently, but it was a pleasure to find that they're <a href="http://thcnet.net/zork/index.php">playable online</a>. Here's an excerpt from one of my favorite puzzles:

<blockquote><pre><strong>>look</strong>
Tiny Room
This is a tiny room carved out of the wall of 
the ravine. There is an exit down a precarious 
climb. On the north side of the room is a massive 
wooden door, which has a small window barred with
iron. A formidable bolt lock is set within the 
door frame. A keyhole covered by a thin metal lid
lies within the lock.

<strong>>open door</strong>
The door is locked.

<strong>>inventory</strong>
You are carrying:
 A sword
 A lamp
 A place mat
 A letter opener
 A newspaper

<strong>>examine door</strong>
The door is made of oak and is closed.

<strong>>look in keyhole</strong>
No light can be seen through the keyhole.

<strong>>open lid</strong>
The lid is now open.

<strong>>put newspaper under door</strong>
The newspaper crumples up and won't go under
the door.

<strong>>put placemat under door</strong>
The place mat fits easily under the door.

<strong>>put letter opener in keyhole</strong>
There is a faint noise from behind the door 
and a small cloud of dust rises from beneath it.

<strong>>get placemat</strong>
As the placemat is moved, a rusty iron key falls
from it onto the floor.

<strong>>get key</strong>
Taken.

<strong>>unlock door</strong>
What do you want to unlock the door with?

<strong>>unlock door with key</strong>
The keyhole is blocked.

<strong>>get letter opener</strong>
Taken.

<strong>>unlock door with key</strong>
The door is now unlocked.

<strong>>open door</strong>
The door is now open.</pre></blockquote>

<p>Success! I can distinctly remember the feeling of first pulling that place mat out and seeing the key on it. Such a sense of accomplishment for a 12 year old.</p>

<p>Today, people still write and explore <a href="http://www.ifwiki.org/index.php/Main_Page">interactive fiction</a>, though I pretty much gave it up when I hit high school. These days, I solve tricky problems by typing into an email client rather than a green-screen game. The skills, however, are pretty much the same...</p>
&#8203;