--- 
layout: post
title: "Change your email address in 13 simple steps"
date: 2005-08-07
author: Jeffrey Veen
---
A friend working in IT for a large telecoms once told me, "Sixty percent of your phone bill comes from making your phone bill." That is, the telecommunications industry is so massive, bureaucratic, and slow-moving that the process of billing you costs more than the service they provide.

So it's not surprising to find that changing my email address with MCI is a _13 step process -- with an additional four warnings that this is all for my privacy and security.

And here I foolishly though this could be accomplished with a text field and a submit button.

This is what I was told when I asked MCI how to update my address:

<blockquote>Dear Jeffrey Veen,

Thank you for contacting MCI &reg; e-Customer Service.

I have received your to update your e-mail address.  We appreciate
your efforts to update your MCI account information in Online Account
Manager. To change your e-mail address, simply follow the steps
below:

To discuss account specific information via e-mail, make account
changes, and to protect your account security, please send account
inquiries from Online Account Manager at www.mci.com/service.  By
requiring you to log in to your existing account using a unique
username and password combination, or to sign up for a new Online
Account Manager account, we can ensure the privacy and security of
your account information.  Once your e-mail is received, we will
answer your questions and/or make changes as quickly as possible. We
apologize for any inconvenience.

Establishing an Online Account Manager account is fast, easy, and
free. Simply follow the steps I've provided below:

1) Visit our Online Account Manager website at www.mci.com/service<br />
2) Click on the "Create Account" button under "Create an Account"<br />
3) Enter your telephone number.<br />
4) Enter your MCI account number OR MCI Calling Card PIN to
verify your identification and maintain your account security.<br />
5) Select your username and password (Your username and password
must be between 6 and 20 characters, and the password must
contain a combination of letters and numbers. You will use
this information every time you wish to access your online
account).<br />
6) Enter your e-mail address.<br />
7) Tell us how you heard about Online Account Manager.<br />
8) Read the Online Account Manager terms and conditions and
click the "Register" button.<br />

Once you have logged in, simply click on the "Contact Us" link for
assistance.

1) Log on to Online Account Manager at www.mci.com/service<br />
2) Click on "Account Maintenance" from the navigation bar, or click
on the "Your Information" (orange color) bar on the left of your page<br />
3) Select "Update Your E-mail Address"<br />
4) Fill out the online form provided<br />
5) Click on "SUBMIT"<br />

MCI is committed to ensuring you make the most of your service.
If you have any additional questions or concerns, please visit
Online Account Manager at www.mci.com/service.

Sincerely,

Randy
e-Customer Service</blockquote>

That's really confusing -- and I'm only trying to update my email address. I can't imagine how difficult it must be to add something like Caller ID to my service. I wonder, are the new breed of VoIP services any better? Or will they fall into the same rut of complexity as they grow, too?
&#8203;